h2. Basic Design Info

* *Title:* Space Rodeo
* *Tagline:* "Would you like fries with that milkshake?"
* *Team Members:* Yue Li, Michael Trotta, Kate Quinn, Joe Soultanis
* *Genre:* Physics Puzzles
* *Platform:* PC
* *Market:* Ages 7 to 5
* *Setting:* Space
* *Plays like*: Angry Birds meets Run from the Sun with a Western theme
* *Summary:* Earth's cows have been abducted into space by an Extraterrestrial Evil Cow Overlord and, if nothing is done to stop him, will be used as part of his Mad Cow army. The courageous cowgoat Billy the Kid ventures from his Wild West home into space to round up the lost cows and defeat the evil cow overlord. Along the way he must master and make use of the physics of the Milky Way. 

h2. Mechanics
* *Survival:* Player has finite number of lives which are lost upon crashes into objects and the map edges
* *Movement:* Player controls his space ship's movement by rotating his ship and by firing a rocket propulsion pulse. She may exploit gravity by orbiting around planets.
* *Map Objectives:* Player must round up a certain quota of cows on each level and reach the Space Ranch on the map. He lassos cows by either encircling them geometrically with the path of his ship or by shooting a lasso rope in one direction
* *Space Effects:* Player must engage with various space effects such as worm holes (map teleportation effect) and deadly astroids.

h2. Reference Art
* Run from the Sun
* Cows in Space
* Spy Fox in Dry Cereal

h2. Related Games

h3. Angry Birds
* *Developer:* Rovio Entertainment
* *Platform:* Apple iOS
* *Year:* 2009
* The game has been called "the largest mobile app success the world has seen," and the mobile app has inspired an entire franchise of related work, including a television series and an Angry Birds Space-themed park at Kennedy and Houston NASA Space Centers. Look for a Sony Pictures Entertainment animated film in 2016.

h3. Cows in Space
* *Developer:* Donut Games
* *Platform:* Apple iOS
* *Year:* 2014
* Similar to Space Rodeo in theme: cows are floating around in space and must be teleported back to Earth. The gameplay is a puzzle game where the player shoots projectiles from a left-right moving shooter to try to knock cows into stars in a Peggle/Pong-type game. There are some interesting gravity mechanics that we may use for inspiration.

h3. Run from the Sun
* *Publisher:* Armor Games
* *Platform:* PC
* *Year:* 2011
* Player controls a space ship, which they launch from one planet to another in a side-scrolling journey, racking up points for distance and other achievements. Players must time the firing of a rocket pulse with the rotation of a planet in order to succeed. Ship upgrades are given for points.
